Course Content:
The course covers the major practical aspects of CyberSecurity. This is a practical course. We present each topic with a theoretical perspective (~30% of the time), followed by a set of exercises (~70% of the time). The exercises are in the format of a Capture The Flag, where the student is asked to solve a puzzle to obtain a secret message (also known as flag). The topics are grouped into four areas.
Cryptography: ciphers; hash functions; symmetric/asymmetric encryption.
Web Vulnerabilities: bad programming practices; injections; language vulnerabilities.
Reverse Engineering: reversing techniques; anti-debug; patching.
Pawning: buffer overflow; defenses; Return Oriented Programming (ROP) attack; Global Offset Table (GOT) attack.
For each topic there will be a theoretical and a practical lesson.
Grading Criteria:
The exam takes the form of a Capture the Flag , with a set of exercises, selected from all the topics of the course.
Students can pass the exam also through Intermediary Evaluations: during the course will be provided three practical evaluations (also following the Capture the Flag format), each one covering a different subset of the program topics.
Alternatively, students can propose/discuss with the lecturer a possible security-related project to be carried out as a final exam.

In short:
- theory was useful only in 2019/2020, otherwise good to know things but useless for the exam
- there are only CTFs to do in the lesson, but don't expect anyone to tell you how they are;
the teacher is there only to make the theory lesson, other than that, only the assistants do stuff
and help, but still, it's a DIY course
- one can make it with two partials (the first partial the first two, the other the last two),
the third is made in case of taking a better mark in one of two parts

The writeups can be written in Italian/English, no matter how.
The important thing is writing them well enough to convince you know something
or at least understand what you are doing.